# Presentations

## Current Abstracts:

### 4 Simple Things for Increased Productivity

You want to be more productive, but in the world of cellphones, instant
messaging, social networks and cube life, it can be tough. In this session,
you'll learn how to get more than 15 minutes of actual work done in a week by
doing 4 simple things. Be m/ore productive and have more time to do the fun
things you really want to do.

### Become a Remote Working Pro

There is no doubt about it, working remotely can be an amazing experience – no
commute and wearing pants is optional! Of course, it’s not all rainbows and
unicorns since there are challenges to overcome and of course work to be done.
This interactive session will answer questions like, “how can I convince my
boss to let me work remotely?”, “how can I make sure they don’t forget about me
once I start working remotely?” and many more. It will equip you with the tools
and techniques for being a successful remote team member.

## Semi-retired Talks

### Leadership Journey: From Software Developer to Leader

You’ve spent years working on your technical skills and can write code with the
best of them. Then, one day, a leadership position opens up on your team, and
you start thinking about it. Should I or shouldn’t I? What if I hate it? What
if I love it? What if I'm not that good at it? In this interactive session,
we’ll explore “why leadership,” answer some hard questions, and talk about one
developer’s path from writing code to leading people.

### I have people skills! The Importance of Emotional Intelligence and Your Career!

“Developers don’t have people skills!” It may be a stereotype, but for some,
it’s a badge of honor to be the anti-social, soda-drinking hermit that people
are afraid to talk to. Movies, TV shows, and comics make light of it, and so do
many of us, but it really is no laughing matter. We strive to be the absolute
best we can be at the technical side of things—we buy books, attend conferences
and stay up late hacking on our side projects—but do very little to improve our
core skills. Unlike IQ, EQ can actively be developed and improved. In this
session, you’ll learn about the components of EQ, why they matter, and some
strategies you can use to improve your own EQ!

## Retired Talks

### Going Independent 101: Lessons Learned from Over a Decade of Independence

Breaking free from the confines of the cubicle farm and going out on your own
can be one of the most satisfying things you do for your career. It can also be
one of the most terrifying. Along with Mike, several consultants and other
professionals will help answer the most common questions people ask such as:
"How do I get started?", "Where do I find clients?", "How much do I charge?"
and many others. Come find out if the grass really is greener on the other
side. 

### Working Effectively as a Team of One

Whether you work in a cube or the comfort of your home office, there are many
challenges facing the lone developer. Everything, from estimation to project
management to coding, changes when you are a single developer instead of a
team. What are some things you can do to make life easier as a lone(ly)
developer? In this session, I will discuss many of the lessons learned and
practices I’ve developed working almost exclusively as a single developer for
the past ten years.

### Vim for Visual Studio Developers

While Visual Studio is an amazing IDE, it clearly lacks the power of the
world’s best text editor! Whether as a stand-alone editor or as a plugin to
your favorite IDE (Visual Studio included), learning how to use Vim will change
how you work. You’ll learn how to install, configure and use this amazing text
editor. You’ll understand the difference between Insert, Ex and Command modes
and how to stop the incessant beeping you’re sure to encounter when you first
try this amazing editor. :wq

### An Introduction to Neo4j

Over the years, relational databases have become the proverbial hammer to the
storage nail. Tables, rows, primary keys, foreign keys and the always loved
SQL. Relational databases like SQL Server have their place, but when it comes
to relationships, you can easily slip into a world of unnecessary complexity.
Thankfully, there is a better way - graph databases. Neo4j is the most popular
graph database in use today. In this session, we'll discuss the basics of graph
databases, how to set up neo4j, create your first database and query using the
cypher query language. You'll come out of this session with an understanding of
why and how you'd use a graph database to solve real world problems.

### XAML: So easy a web developer can do it

You're a web developer with years of experience creating amazing web
applications, but you've just been assigned to a *gasp* WPF project! Because
you're an expert developer, you're expected to love this new technology and be
productive from day 1.You click File | New | WPF project and feel completely
lost as you open the XAML files. Not only that, but you have to contend with
new patterns like MVVM! Trust me, it's not as bad as it appears and XAML is NOT
as hard as you think. This session will cover the things you need to know to be
successful on your first XAML-based project.

### XAML Styles and Templates: Make your apps shine!

You’re a developer, not a designer, but with no designer on the team, it’s your
job to make your XAML-based application look good. With a little effort and an
understanding of styles and templates, you can impress your users with a
compelling, easy-to-use application. You’ll learn the ins and outs of styles,
understand when and where to use templates and much more from a developer
experienced in not only writing XAML-based apps, but in making them look good
too!

### Simplify your XAML Applications with Caliburn.Micro

You’re an application developer, not a plumber (or carpenter), so why are you
writing your own MVVM framework? Worse yet, maybe you’re jamming all sorts of
code in the code-behind! Put down the pipe wrench (or hammer) and pick up one
of the best MVVM frameworks for WPF/Windows 8/WP. Caliburn.Micro makes it
extremely simple to create solid, testable applications, while also reducing
the amount of code you have to write.

### Improving our Craft: A Discussion on Software Estimation

How are your software estimation skills? If your answer was "dude, I'm terrible
at estimation", you're not alone. Being able to accurately estimate software is
a skill every developer should have but research and statistics show it's a
skill few actually possess. In this session, we'll talk about why we have so
much trouble with this key skill and then discuss some strategies for improving
our software estimation chops.
